.TH GIT-REBASE-THEIRS 1 2016-01-31
.\" For nroff, turn off justification.  Always turn off hyphenation; it makes
.\" way too many mistakes in technical documents.
.if n .ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
git-rebase-theirs \-
Resolve rebase conflicts and failed cherry-picks by favoring 'theirs' version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git-rebase-theirs
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ -- ]
.IR FILE ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Resolve git rebase conflicts in FILE(s) by favoring 'theirs' version.

When using git rebase, conflicts are usually wanted to be resolved by favoring
the <working branch> version (the branch being rebased, 'theirs' side in a
rebase), instead of the <upstream> version (the base branch, 'ours' side)

But git rebase --strategy -X theirs is only available from git 1.7.3
For older versions, git-rebase-theirs is the solution. And Despite the name,
it's also useful for fixing failed cherry-picks.

It works by discarding all lines between '<<<<<<< ' and '========'
inclusive, and also the the '>>>>>> commit' marker.

By default it outputs to stdout, but files can be edited in-place
using --in-place, which, unlike sed, creates a backup by default.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.BR \-h , \ \-\-help
show usage information.
.TP 8
.BR \-v , \ \-\-verbose
print more details in stderr.
.TP 8
.BI \-\-in-place [=SUFFIX]
edit files in place, creating a backup with
.I SUFFIX
extension. Default if blank is ".bak"
.TP 8
.B \-\-no-backup
disables backup
.SH SEE ALSO
.B https://github.com/MestreLion/git-tools
.SH AUTHOR
Rodrigo Silva (MestreLion) linux@rodrigosilva.com
