.TH GIT-STRIP-MERGE 1 2016-01-31
.\" For nroff, turn off justification.  Always turn off hyphenation; it makes
.\" way too many mistakes in technical documents.
.if n .ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
git-strip-merge \-
A git-merge wrapper that deletes files on a "foreign" branch before merging
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git-strip-merge
.RI [ git-merge\ options ]
.RB [ -M
.IR <commitmsg> ]
.I <branch>
.IR FILE ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
git-merge that deletes files on "foreign" <branch> before merging.
.sp
Useful for ignoring a folder in <branch> before merging it with
current branch. Works by deleting FILE(S) in a detached commit based
on <branch>, and then performing the merge of this new commit in the
current branch. Note that <branch> is not changed by this procedure.
Also note that <branch> may actually be any reference, like a tag,
or a remote branch, or even a commit SHA.
.sp
For more information, see <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3111515>
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.BR \-h , \ \-\-help
show help message and exit
.TP 8
.BR \-v , \ \-\-verbose
do not use -q to suppress normal output of internal steps from git
checkout, rm, commit. By default, only git merge output is shown.
Errors, however, are never suppressed.
.TP 8
.BR \-M\  <message>, \ \-\-msgcommit =<message>
message for the removal commit in <branch>. Not to be confused
with the message of the merge commit, which is set by -m. Default
message is: "remove files from '<branch>' before merge".
.TP 8
.BR \-m\  <message>, \ \-\-message =<message>
message for the merge commit. Since we are not merging <branch>
directly, but rather a detached commit based on it, we forge a
message similar to git's default for a branch merge. Otherwise
git would use in message the full and ugly SHA1 of our commit.
Default message is: "Merge stripped branch '<branch>'".
.PP
For both commit messages, the token "<branch>" is replaced for the
actual <branch> name.
.sp
Additional options are passed unchecked to git merge.
.sp
All options must precede <branch> and FILE(s), except -h and --help
that may appear anywhere on the command line.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
git-strip-merge design "photoshop/*"
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.B https://github.com/MestreLion/git-tools
.SH AUTHOR
Rodrigo Silva (MestreLion) linux@rodrigosilva.com
